In this exercise, we will actually do what we created the cluster four which
is doing the loading of the data inside the Redshift cluster.
The point here is that we assume we
already created a cluster here and we've got in step 2.2,
the end point and the ARN.
So, I'm going to go ahead take these with me from the second exercise and put them here.
Just take this along everything.
Then I'm going to connect to the cluster.
Connected. Now, again I'm going to use this s3 client,
and here I'm pointing at a different bucket where data is already loaded.
Here we get another dataset called the tickets data.
The tickets data actually has two parts.
It has one file called full.csv as one file,
and another file which is the same file but
actually done like split with the part suffix here.
A prefix I mean. So, what we're going to
do is we're going to go ahead and create the table.
If you haven't used the SQL with Jupiter before,
when we load this extension called ipython-sql,
we first load it like so.
Then we can have two versions.
Either we can go right percent sql, a single percent.
Then we can write a one liner here.
In that one liner with a dollar sign,
we can access python.
Or we can have a multi-line sql if we do percent percent sql instead.
Here if we do that version,
we cannot access Python using the dollar sign.
So, either one liner and we can access a sql query we constructed in Python
or double percent percent sql and we have a multi-line sql.
So, here we're going to create the table,
sporting_event _ticket like that using our connection.
Okay. It is done.
We're going to load a partitioned data into the cluster.
So, we're going to load the ticket split apart.
There is no file called part.
There is no file called parts.
What exists is multiple files here that all share
the line part from one to nine.
But they have this common prefix.
We do that and here
the most important thing is that we are having the credentials like that.
You see here. So, these are the credentials.
Here I am using the I am role,
this I am role that we got in the past exercise,
and which we filled also up here.
So, here I am constructing a query using a multi-line Python string.
This is a normal multi-line Python string.
I'm using the format to insert this here.
I'm saying we're working with a gzip format and the delimeter
of these files is a semi colon and region us-west-2.
The percent sql query here is a one liner where we constructed this here.
Now, the question also might be what is this?
Since we are profiling performance,
we are saying this compression update off means please do not do
any your automatic compression optimizations because we want to
just profile here the difference between parallel load and one time load from a big file.
So, we do not want to have something else mess up our statistics.
But in generally, wouldn't supply this.
So, let's go ahead and run.
So, that's 15 seconds.
I use the percent percent time here to measure the time.
Good, these were the split ones.
Now, they were loaded in parallel.
We want to afterwards load the full one,
the single file that's going to be fetched in sequence not in parallel.
So, we create the table for non partition data.
We're going to call it sporting-event-ticket-full.
Here again, I'm creating the table.
Then again because I want actually to construct a Python string,
multi-line string, and inserts my credentials here.
Here I'm going to put the full.csv.gz and see what happens to the 15 seconds.
Okay, 23 seconds.
So actually, we can see here that this one takes longer.
The data actually we are putting here is not trivial data,
but this just shows you the ratio.
If you put big large datasets,
actually this is going to matter even more substantially.
I mean sometimes we will see in exercise four,
we have data that takes 10 minutes to load.
So, this factor is going to be actually multiplied into I mean on the bigger size,
and you will see a substantial difference.
With that, we have shown in this exercise that you can actually do parallel
or single-threaded ETL or loading actually mostly the loads into a Redshift.